Now, we're gonna move on to exercise 9.
So let's close down this server,
node dev 9,
And close all these, open up 9 README.
Now, the next two exercises
are kinda go hand in hand.
The reason we're doing exercise 9 is so
that we can do exercise 10, but
it's a valuable thing to understand and
know with Remix.
And so
it's good to have it as a separate thing.
I'm gonna talk about
environment variables.
Now, your Remix app, because it has
a server that's actually running,
you can use process.env.NODE_ENV or
process.env for
whatever environment variables
that works for Node.
I think environment variables are
different on different platforms and run
times, but yeah, you can just use whatever
the runtime supports for your server code.
But for client code, if you need
environment variables that get into
the client,
that's what this exercise is all about.
And I give you an example of use case with
actually something I do in my own site and
describe some of the problems that you'll
run into so you can read through that.
I'll give you a convention
that I have been using for
getting environment variables into the
client in a way that is both typesafe and
also pretty straightforward.
And then it is your job to implement that.
For us,
we're on the contrived side of things.
What we wanna do is make it so
only the admin email can update posts and
even see that post page.
So we wanna protect some of our routes.
And so we have an ADMIN_EMAIL
environment variable,
which you'll find in the .env here.
That is kody@remix.run.
And we need this access to both in
the client and on the server, and
this is where I say it's
a little contrived.
You typically wouldn't want the admin
email in the client, but yeah,
it's actually not a big deal,
cuz maybe we're gonna add a contact page,
and it'll show your email anyway,
so no big deal.
But this is just how we're going to
do this so that the client can know,
is the current user the admin so
that it can display the right things?
But more importantly, so the server
also can determine, this is the action
that's being performed, is the currently
logged in user allowed to do that action?
So you're gonna be spending a little bit
of time in a new file called env.server.
You'll also work in entry.server and
root.tsx.
In the next exercise, we'll get into
the session.server file to actually
implement some of the protections and
stuff.
But right now, your objective is
just to get these environments or
this environment variable
into the client and server.
And then yeah, having TypeScript.
Happy about how all of this
works is the extra credit here.
Cool?
All right, have fun with exercise 9.